Hey, Brian. Hey, everyone out there in the live stream or the live stream, rewind
or whatever you call it when you watch it. It's not a live stream, but it used to be
welcome. Shall we kick this off? Yeah, let's let's do it. Hello, and welcome to Python
bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode
418 recorded January 27th, 2025. And I am Michael Kennedy and I'm Brian Okken. And this episode
is brought to you by us. Check out Brian's pie test course, check out his course and a bunch
of my courses over at Talk Python Training. And thank you to Patrion subscriber, subscriber
supporters there. We appreciate all of you. And even if you don't do any of those things,
we appreciate that you listen. That's why we get to do this stuff. If you want to connect
with us, we're blue sky masted on mostly these days links for Brian, me and the show all
in the show notes. You can join us live Python by set of him slash live. A few of you are
most of you aren't. That's fine. But we do that if you want to join usually Monday at 10
a.m. Pacific time. Sometimes things go a little haywire. You can always watch the video replay
on the episode page if it's available. And finally, Brian and I are crafting. We're continuing
to hone our artisan craft Brian for the artisan newsletter. So if, if people want to get the
newsletter, they can go right to Python by set of them click on newsletter. It's the very center
of the five buttons in the hero image. And all you got to do is give us your name and email,
and we will send you summaries, insights, the joke, and a couple of things we're doing different
now. Brian's trying to put the TLDR stuff at the front so you can skim it really quick as well as
the joke so people can have fun with that kind of stuff. So if they want that, they can check it out.
And with that, what would you like to talk about first today?
Brian Smith: I actually want to talk about something that's not really
wonderful, but I think we should talk about it anyway. So this last weekend, we lost Michael Ford.
And many of you might not know who that is, but he was influential. He's a core Python dev and influential
with a lot of the early stuff in Python and PyCon, at least early in my perspective. So
one of the things that he is known for is one of the contributors to the unit test library within
Python. And then also he wrote a package called mock that was separate for a while, but then I think it
was 3.3 or something early in the three X's got incorporated into the standard library as unit test.mock. So if you're mocking
anything, even if you use so py test mock is where I usually use often, but it's a wrapper around that
library. So a lot of great stuff from Michael. He was a larger than life character. There is an in memoriam
Brian Smith: That's up on the python.org discuss site started by Guido and a couple of things that Guido
mentioned is that that Michael's an original thinker started the tradition of having the language summit
events at PyCon. That's pretty big. And if I recall, the IRC was that if I recall correctly together
with Barry Warsaw. So he also wrote the mock library. And in the in memoriam. So Guido suggests that to feel
free to post positive memories of Michael and perhaps maybe he's got kids 10 and 13. So hopefully
later they can look back and see how influential he was. And I'm I really had a hard time with this.
actually. I had a couple losses in my family and and recently and just I wasn't really close to Michael, but
I kind of wish I would have been. I did interview him. I tried to interview him early and
eventually did in 2021 get to talk to him about mocking on for the testing code podcast. So
just listen to this. It's a great again. It's a great episode. He's got some great advice towards
software development and testing. So check that out also. There's also a really great write up from
so Nicholas Toller V
who I've also had on the testing code podcast. Also a great guy. He's a he's the dude from the
MU or MU editor. He wrote up my friend, Michael, a post about losing losing Michael. And there's some great pictures.
He was a larger than life. That's a great one. Larger than life character. There's a paragraph in here
I wanted to read. He was a walking paradox, both completely certain of himself and yet always
questioning everything. He didn't shy away from fiercely independent thinking often about the oddest of subjects and through
and through the most extraordinary original and I dare say weird lines of argument anyway.
Goodbye, Michael. You will be missed. So
Yeah, thoughts out to
the whole community friends family. I didn't get a chance to meet Michael, but
certainly it looks like he was very influential
Yeah.
All right.
Hopefully you got something a little less depressing next for us.
Yes. I well, it starts with a real smiley picture. So it's going to start out pretty well.
I had Calvin Hendrix Parker from six feet up on
talk Python and we talked about this deployment
system kind of like cookie cutter, but way more more than that.
So it's going to be like a whole infrastructure for initially Django apps, but growing from there.
Anyway, during that, we talked about a bunch of the building blocks of those tools and of that
framework. And that's how we get to the next one.
something called valky do you remember um i mean you know redis right so redis key value stores
people sometimes group it in the database category for when you're doing uh like surveys
and what database you use redis json or sql server like huh i wonder which one i should
pick which of these which of these fit which of these don't or whatever but it you know redis is
kind of a key value store mostly in memory cache high speed but can be used for other things for
queues i believe it can persist well anyway it's gone through some funky licensing this is not new
by the way that's not new but it's been that way for a little while and i don't know i've always had
prickly reactions with the folks from redis but whatever um i ran across this thing called valky
like value key key value store and valky is a truly open source no license no cost no nothing
alternative to redis so an open source in-memory data store that can kind of be a primary database
if you want it to be but it's not its main goal so here i'll just give you the quick
uh first paragraph valky is an open source high performance key value data store that supports a
variety of workloads such as caching primarily right message queues and can act as a primary database
valky can run either as a standalone daemon or in a cluster which is pretty awesome with replication
and high availability options it even has native support for well strings obviously numbers probably
but hashes list sets so you can ask for probably like i want to query into this dictionary type of thing
pretty cool people can check it out if you go to the github somewhere there's got to be a github right here we go
and you go to the repositories
somewhere oh there it is right there finally found it 18 000 github stars 700 forks so it's it's got a lot of life to it and
let's see does it tell you how old it was about a year old i think anyway isn't that cool i think it's
really neat yeah you'll definitely check this out i do too i'm pretty excited about it i'm not using
anything like this yet but there's some situations where i might be able to use this recently and
certainly this is something i would give a hard look at if i was doing a key value in memory cache type
of thing especially with the failover and the replication because a lot of times you've got to
restart these things they have to repopulate the cache and that can be really kind of slow and you know
like c systems fall down then they can't quite get back up because the cache isn't there and they keep
getting killed and anyway these are pretty neat technologies if you need them and valky yeah check it out
cool all right back to you uh let's see doing this again okay um there i'm gonna go back to michael
ford again because um actually in 2017 he wrote an article called 30 best practices for software
development and testing and i think i didn't didn't talk about it on this podcast because my intent was to
talk about it on testing code and interview michael and um and that was a long story as to why we
didn't talk about this but i i can't believe we haven't covered this yet so a really great article
30 best practices um i'm not going to read all of them but i want to read like a few of them
uh yagni uh it's not the only place i've listened to heard the term yagni but yagni is number one
yagni stands for you ain't gonna need it so don't write code that you think that you might need in
the future but don't need yet just don't do that you write it in the future because you might not
need it yeah people stress so much about this like oh we got a plan for the future we got to get just
right or just embrace refactoring just in factoring right like write it so it works now and if you need
to change it there's all sorts of amazing tools to change it source control doesn't
not break it so you can save it tools through factor just test to make sure it works yep um
gonna jump down a little bit a bunch of great stuff in here uh oh i love this when uh when it comes to
api design simple things should be simple complex things should be possible um i can't remember i don't
remember if i got this from him or not but i live by this uh trying to keep the easy things easy
and uh it can be complicated for the not easy things that's okay um number six is um unit test
tests uh unit tests test to the unit of behavior not the unit of implement implementation and these are
kind of fighting words uh uh this is pretty much the difference between classical versus
macus test driven development but um i stand by michael's side on this one
number eight we got a couple more that i want to hit number eight um code is the enemy it can go wrong
it needs maintenance write less code delete code don't write code you don't need um the less code it's
true the less code you got the less bugs could be in there um for the most part as a general rule
uh last one that i want more about nine as well by the way oh nine yeah inevitably code comments become
lies over time yeah definitely in practice few people update comments i i still remember that i had a
code base that there's so many comments in them and there were boilerplate comments that in order to
understand the code i wrote a script to copy the entire code base into a different directory structure
and strip all the comments out and it was so much easier to deal with um gosh i feel that way about help
help docs help strings doc strings sometimes yeah it's like there's three lines of code and 18 lines
of doc string like wow if that just weren't there i could read it yeah and then that can blow up like
the entire file if each function is like that you've got this exactly um a few hundred lines of code and
two thousand lines of file anyway anyway um 15 we'll jump to 15 uh the more you have the more you have
to mock out your test to mock out to test your code the worse your code is um and that was one of the
things that surprises me coming from him this is the dude that wrote the mock library um and uh and one of
the things he discusses in the episode where uh i got to interview him is he was developing this when he
was on a team that was doing uh mockus test you know a mockus isolation test driven development uh philosophy
and uh and they ran into the issues that i i've run into before also is if you're testing the
implementation that means when you have to refactor your code your tests don't help at all they just they
they just all break so testing behavior uh is better and then also um just um trying to not
uh have to mock your code that's not a hard and fast rule sometimes it's the easiest thing so yeah
and plus you're gonna hurt its feelings if you mock it it's just not nice i mean sometimes you got to
just not nice come on yeah that's funny anyway uh great article uh go have a go have a read i've already
i've reposted it on uh on social media and a lot of people have said uh hey this is great so awesome
that's good all right i got a question for you brian okay if you're working on a web project and i've
been working on some web projects and you have to do direct requests like say for example over on python bytes
if i go to say like our latest which is very very close to being not true but our latest episode
bugs hide from the light you can see there's a image here and that's the thumbnail from youtube and we have
stuff in python by set of m that when you load this page it'll look for the youtube link and then it'll talk to youtube
pull that and get thumbnail now you might think why don't you just put the youtube in bed right there
because google is parasitic and when you embed a youtube video it puts tracking cookies onto you
which means we would have to have a cookie banner do you accept our cookies because we're making our
website better for you by tracking you like i'm pretty sure you're not but okay
or you could download the image put it in your database and then serve it out of court or flask
or pyramid or whatever it is you're using right yeah when you do that kind of stuff you need to know what
the mime type is or the content type more importantly like you need to tell the browser this is not just
binary stuff but this is an image i know it came from a database and doesn't have a file name but it's a
png or it's a jpeg or whatever right so back to my item
mime type.io which i would prefer to say is content type.io but you know for example tell me
what is the content type of a jpeg well it's probably image slash jpeg but is there a
e in there like jpeg or is it jpg but you better not get it wrong right so there's the site mime type.io
and you just type in whatever file extension you think you can imagine it'll tell you
it's image slash jpeg with any not without and it shows you all the file type extensions for which
this applies and it gives you like the history of it what if there's other things it's known as
like sometimes i think if i put in json there might be like json as application slash json but it's
there's a deprecated text slash json it might also appear as isn't this cool yeah yeah so if you're doing
web projects and you need to send files you need to specify the content type and here you go this is
how you do it so i really like this i ran across this in hat tip to a very very similar project for
http status codes at http statuses.io so for example you've seen 200 201 like 200 is good
201 is created if you did like a post a new thing or whatever but what is about 203 i don't know man
but if you click on it it says this is a you know lets you dive into them it's a 203 non-authoritative
information this request was successful but enclosed but the enclosed payload has been modified from that
of the origin server's 200 okay response by a transforming proxy whoo but it also shows you like how to get to
these as enumerations in say python or the new new python and so on right so you're not programming
with magic numbers like 203 or quote 203 sometimes these are representative strings and i don't know why
but yeah anyway we're going to come back to this for our joke but the takeaway is mime type.io which i wish
were called content type.io but whatever it still works okay i like my types yeah like that
that are stuck in a bubble like i can't get out i know yeah they really they really do act it out
they do act it out
sorry no it's all right all right that's it for our main items right yeah i think so you got any extras
i just noticed just one i noticed um some i'm sorry i noticed somebody posted online today that uh
uh that um python 1.1 is out actually 31 years ago as of today uh python on january 27th 1994 guido posted
1.00 is out so anyway tired of deciphering that pearl code you got last week
sick of cgi let's go frustrated with born shell syntax yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah funny cool
well i don't know we'll see if that thing takes off
hope so it's got our future yeah we'll see all right cool i got a few extras i'll keep it quick i don't got a
lot um speaking of releases python 3 14 0 alpha 4 came out last week minutes after we recorded our
last episode so since last time something to announce people can check it out it's coming along
this is alpha 4 that means there's three more alpha releases then we hit beta then you can start to treat
it seriously as a fixed item right chances are no new features just bug fixes and polish before it goes
although i'm sure they could decide you know this is too rough we're not going to make it we'll
take a feature out but the idea is that the betas are fixed yeah and actually so i i usually haven't been
testing new stuff until like we had to betas but uv has made it so easy to load up uh pre-release stuff
that i'm testing with for 3.14 already so that's awesome and it's not just easy it's also low impact
it's not like it you're taking over your machines latest python is now this alpha thing yeah right
the same goes true for free threaded python right you can get that with uh pretty cool all right uh this
wasn't even going to be here but then i was thinking about it as we were setting up i just
set up a fast mail account and wow fast mail is so much better than Proton Mail for what i've been
doing these days like Proton Mail is always slow and clunky and even things like archiving
like they have a hot key to archive your mail and you're viewing the mail and you press archive
it's like three seconds later before it archives it and it goes away like what is it doing so i've
switched my personal mail over to fast mail and so far i highly recommend it yeah i've been using it for
a while i love it you like it yeah i'm really enjoying it as well okay well that brings us to our joke
okay and back to http status codes what episode is it brian i don't remember 418 418. well let's go down to
that status code 418 and there was somebody in one of the socials mastodon or blue sky i can't remember
i believe who said it's coming up it's coming up you gotta you gotta do this and oh yeah right they were
still right and they gave us a picture i can't find the post again so i'm sorry i can't shout out credit
but thank you for sending that in http statuses.io slash 418 418 client error 418 i'm a teapot this is
literally in the http spec you can return it for whatever value it serves 418 i'm a teapot any
attempt to brew coffee with a teapot should result in an error code 418 i'm a teapot the resulting entity
body may be short and stout i am quite disappointed in python i am disappointed there's a dot net
enumeration status code status status 418 i'm a teapot there's a rust i'm a teapot there's a go
status teapot there's no python i'm a teapot they didn't implement all of the status codes come on people
oh dear this could be my first pet brian yeah i think you should do this as a pet i gotta get this
i gotta get this accepted um yeah so so one it's funny but also do you think it's like in place just
you know for something for people to like debug their status codes yeah yeah possibly i'm pretty sure
it was an april fool's joke that got into this the spec and people are like we're doing it yeah we just
have to keep it i'm a teapot this is a perfect status code so this is i'm a teapot episode i mean
show title right there what do you think yeah definitely number 418 i'm a teapot let's go
all right hopefully the rss readers will still get it i know will they read the 200 okay on the rss or
will they read the title the 418 i'm a teapot we'll see we're sorry your podcast letter is not short and
short and stout yeah i hope so well i hope it actually works uh awesome we'll see where it goes
but that was a lot of fun as has been doing this show for 418 episodes so thanks for being here
yeah thank you yeah thanks to everyone who listens bye bye